AMP-120844 [ga4Import] Create a developer doc for GA4 Import (#448)
amplitude/amplitude-docs: content/collections/source-catalog/en/ga4.md

* [Create a Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts-create#console) with permissions granted for the bucket and tables you want to ingest, then [get the service account key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-create-delete). The Service Account must have the following roles granted to it:
  * **BigQuery**
    * BigQuery Job User at the project level.
    * BigQuery Data Viewer at the resource level necessary to access your data to be ingested. If your data is in a single table, just grant the service account BigQuery Data Viewer for that table resource. If the query requires multiple tables or datasets, grant BigQuery Data Viewer on all tables or datasets in the query.
  * **Cloud Storage**
    * Storage Admin on the GCS bucket you're using for ingestion.
* Depending on your company's network policy, you may need to add the following IP addresses to your allowlist to allow Amplitude's servers to access your BigQuery instance:
  * Amplitude US IP addresses:
    * 52.33.3.219
    * 35.162.216.242
    * 52.27.10.221
  * Amplitude EU IP addresses:
    * 3.124.22.25
    * 18.157.59.125
    * 18.192.47.195

> ## Add GA4 as a source

Reviewer: @bh202205 can we have a section before this to explain how ga4 source in general? That's what customer had escalated to us a lot, so clarifying that in public doc can help both customer and us a lot. 

Example: https://segment.com/docs/connections/sources/catalog/cloud-apps/facebook-ads/#sync

Author: 1. Load amount / how much load
2. which load

Author: Section added. Let me know if this makes sense to you.

---
id: c18235b8-e6a1-4c1b-bfc1-c0a3a85dc2c5
blueprint: source-catalog
use_cases:
  - 'Enable seamless data transfer from Google Analytics 4 (GA4) to Amplitude by leveraging GA4’s BigQuery link, utilizing advanced analytics to enhance event tracking and user behavior insights in Amplitude.'
short_description: 'Google Analytics 4 (GA4) is a platform for tracking user behavior across websites and apps with event-based data and advanced insights.'
integration_category:
  - data-warehouse-data-lake
integration_type:
  - group-properties
  - user-properties
  - raw-events
title: 'Google Analytics 4 Import'
source: 'https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/data/sources/ga4/'
category: Warehouse
connection: source
partner_maintained: false
integration_icon: partner-icons/ga4.svg
exclude_from_sitemap: false
---

> With Amplitude's Google Analytics 4 integration, you can ingest Google Analutics 4 data into your Amplitude project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Amplitude's Google Analytics 4 integration, you can ingest Google Analytics 4 data into your Amplitude project.
```

  * **BigQuery**
    * BigQuery Job User at the project level.
    * BigQuery Data Viewer at the resource level necessary to access your data to be ingested. If your data is in a single table, just grant the service account BigQuery Data Viewer for that table resource. If the query requires multiple tables or datasets, grant BigQuery Data Viewer on all tables or datasets in the query.
  * **Cloud Storage**
    * Storage Admin on the GCS bucket you're using for ingestion.
* Depending on your company's network policy, you may need to add the following IP addresses to your allowlist to allow Amplitude's servers to access your BigQuery instance:
  * Amplitude US IP addresses:
    * 52.33.3.219
    * 35.162.216.242
    * 52.27.10.221
  * Amplitude EU IP addresses:
    * 3.124.22.25
    * 18.157.59.125
    * 18.192.47.195

## How Amplitude imports your GA4 data

Here’s a step-by-step breakdown of how Amplitude imports your GA4 data:

1. Export GA4 Data to BigQuery

    First, your GA4 data is exported to your BigQuery project through BigQuery Linking. This process sets up an automated flow of event data from GA4 to BigQuery.

2. Unload Data from BigQuery to Your GCS Bucket

>     To handle BigQuery’s export limitations (e.g., export size restrictions), we unload your data from BigQuery to the GCS bucket you provided. This ensures data readiness for ingestion into Amplitude.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To handle BigQuery’s export limitations (for example, export size restrictions), we unload your data from BigQuery to the GCS bucket you provided. This ensures data readiness for ingestion into Amplitude.
```

    * Delay Handling:

      To ensure your data is complete, we account for [delays caused by GA4’s export process](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9358801?hl=en):
      * 72 hours for daily exports.
      * 24 hours for streaming exports.

>     * Catch-up Importing:

Reviewer: would be helpful to also describe how initial batch works, and how next batch imports to ensure all data will be imported.

        If there’s a backlog, we use a catch-up strategy to process data in batches of 10 tables per day. For example:

        * If you configure your import to start from the event table on 2025-01-01, and today’s date is 2025-01-24, we import:
          * 2025-01-01 to 2025-01-10 in the first batch on 2025-01-24.
          * 2025-01-11 to 2025-01-20 in the second batch on 2025-01-25.

>           * 2025-01-21 to 2025-01-23 in the thrid batch on 2025-01-26.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          * 2025-01-21 to 2025-01-23 in the third batch on 2025-01-26.
```

          * 2025-01-24 on 2025-01-27 (due to the 72-hour delay for daily exports).

    During the unload process, we also transform your data into the format required by Amplitude for seamless ingestion.

3. Import Data from GCS to Amplitude

>     Once your data is synced to the specified GCS bucket, it will be imported into Amplitude. Please note that it may take some time for your data to be fully available in Amplitude. We appreciate your patience during this process.

Reviewer: let's rephrase it by removing the call out in waiting since that could raise some concerns. Something like

```
Once data is ready in GCS bucket, we will import data into Amplitude on your behalf.
```

>     Once your data is synced to the specified GCS bucket, it will be imported into Amplitude. Please note that it may take some time for your data to be fully available in Amplitude. We appreciate your patience during this process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Once your data syncs to the specified GCS bucket, Amplitude imports it. It may take some time for your data to be fully available in Amplitude. 
```
Can we provide a ballpark "up to" amount of time?

Author: Rephrased this part.

  
5. After configuring your options, click **Next**. Amplitude executes a pre-defined SQL query to verify the data import from BigQuery. Amplitude transforms GA4 data into a compatible format. Refer to the [Amplitude HTTP V2 API documentation](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2#event-array-keys) for required fields.

    * Editing SQL:  The pre-defined query typically handles all required fields, but you can customize it to include additional fields if needed.

6. If no errors occur, click **Next**. Enter a source name and click **Save**. A notification confirms that the GA4 source has been successfully enabled. The Sources listing page loads, where the newly created GA4 source appears in the list.

If you encounter any issues or have questions during the setup process, reach out to the Amplitude team for support: [Contact Support](https://gethelp.amplitude.com/hc/en-us/requests/new)

## BigQuery SQL helper

> 

Reviewer 2: @bh202205 I just pushed a bunch of edits. All I think we need  is a sentence or two here that talks about what the BigQuery SQL helper is. Is it an actual thing? Or just the tips that we provide below?

Generally, best practice is to include at least one sentence under each heading, and not have another heading on the next line.

Author: This is just some tips we want to provide for our customers because we often hear from them the BigQuery SQL syntax requirement is quite confusing.

Author: Description added

Author: Let me know if you have any other questions.
